---
title: "cfp"
bg: blue
color: black
fa-icon: bullhorn
---

# Call for Papers

Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) are an essential mechanism for software reuse. However, over the past two decades, many researchers have shown inherent problems with APIs, such as the lack of useful documentation for proper use, incorrect usage of APIs that lead to bugs and security vulnerability, and difficulties in migrating between API versions. While previous efforts in solving these problems have advanced the state of the art, many of these issues still exist today. We believe it is time to reflect and compare experiences from different perspectives and to come up with new solutions to the above challenges. 

The 1st International Workshop on API Usage and Evolution (WAPI) will be co-located with the [39<sup>th</sup> International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2017)](http://icse2017.gatech.edu/) in Buenos Aires, Argentina. WAPI provides a venue for researchers and practitioners to come together and discuss the open challenges that API users and designers face. For example, *how can we measure the quality of an API? How can we accurately rely on client code for identifying patterns when the rule of "the majority do it right" does not always hold (e.g., in security-related APIs)? What is the best way to present API recommendations and API usages to a developer? How can we measure or improve the usability of an API?* The goal of the workshop is to identify the current open challenges in the area and define a roadmap for innovative solutions.

## Topics

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

* API quality metrics
* API usage patterns
* API misuse detection
* API specification/documentation
* Support for evolution of API documentation
* API usability & design
* API evolution and migration
* Library/framework recommendations
* Leveraging different sources of data to perform any of the above tasks
* Suitable representations for usage patterns
* User-friendly ways of presenting API and API-usage recommendations to the developer
* User perspectives of API usage and evolution
* Designer perspectives of API design and evolution
* Negative experiences (what did not work)
* Identification of open challenges and proposed solutions
* Synergies between API challenges and other research areas  

## Submission Information

WAPI 2017 invites contributions in the form of **4-page papers** from both researchers and practitioners, as well as **talk abstracts** from practitioners. Paper submissions can be research papers, practice papers, position papers, or experience reports. All submissions should describe unpublished work and must have been neither previously accepted for publication nor concurrently submitted for review in another journal, book, conference, or workshop. All submissions are peer-reviewed and accepted papers will appear in the workshop proceedings. All submissions should be made through [EasyChair](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=wapi17). 

## Important Dates

Submissions due
: Friday January 20th 2017

Notification to authors
: Friday February 17th 2017

Camera-ready copies due
: Monday February 27th 2017
